the US Secretary of State is embarking
on another tour of the Middle East in an
effort to boost support for a ceasefire
in Gaza it is Anthony blinken's eighth
trip to the region since the war between
Israel and Hamas began last October
during the three-day visit which begins
in Egypt he'll urge Arab leaders to
pressure Hamas into accepting the draft
peace deal unveiled at the end of last
month by President Biden meanwhile Benny
gance one of the most senior members of
the Israeli War cabinet which was set up
after the Hamas attack last October has
resigned from the group he had
threatened to stand down unless he felt
there was a post-war plan for Gaza with
a deadline set for yesterday he told
reporters he wasn't satisfied and this
is the moment he confirmed he was
standing down unfortunately nany is
preventing us from approaching true
Victory which is the justification for
the painful ongoing price in this is why
we quit the national Unity government
today with a heavy heart yet we feel
that it is the right
decision we are now in the midst of a
campaign that will impact the fate of
Israel Generations
ahead in order to guarantee true Victory
this coming fall when it will be the
oneyear anniversary of This Disaster we
should go for elections and reach new a
new
government I call on to n set a date for
elections well let's go live to
Jerusalem now and join our correspondent
there John donison good morning John so
what's the reaction been to this so
far well look I think this is a
significant moment but it's not going to
bring the government of prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu down because his
Coalition still maintains its majority
in the parliament but you have to
remember that uh Mr gance joined the
government and the war cabinet uh in the
wake of the October the 7th attacks as
an act of unity and what this shows now
is that there is no Unity on how the war
is being conducted in Gaza and in
particular as you said in your
introduction in terms of a postwar plan
it also removes a relatively moderate
figure and Mr gance is a man with vast
military experience uh from the cabinet
and someone I think who was particularly
well respected by the Americans and I
think what people think could happen
here is it will see the government shift
to the right those more extremist
elements within the Israeli government
could have more say in particular itamar
Ben gavier the security minister uh he
has already said that he should replace
Mr Gant in the war cabinet and he is
someone who completely rejects the idea
of any sort of ceasefire deal with Hamas
so what does this mean for President
Biden's plan that was presented at the
end of last month Anthony blinkin is in
the region again and his uh his hope is
to try and persuade Hamas to come on
board but now Israel what Israel thinks
about that plan is changing
presumably yes I mean Mr blinken is
going to be trying to put pressure I
think on both sides he's due uh in Cairo
and then in Israel uh a little later uh
but he's he's got a tough job and those
ceasefire talks don't really seem to be
getting anywhere at the moment and the
danger is that if for Mr Netanyahu that
if he uh agrees to go ahead with this
ceasefire deal deal which he has
suggested uh he would do the of course
the Americans are calling it an Israeli
plan then the likes of Mr benav who I
mentioned earlier have said they will
pull out of the government and that
would bring the government down and it
would mean fresh elections and that is
something that Mr Netanyahu is
desperately trying to avoid so um it's
going to be fascinating to see what
unfolds uh in the next few days but I
don't think people are holding their
breath for any sort of ceasefire deal
soon okay John for now thank you very
much indeed John donison there in
Jerusalem for us